VII - THE PATH BEFORE US
(PANTING)
- AMICIA: Do you know where we're going?
- MÉLIE: Right now, we have to hide.
Arthur and I know a place.
- AMICIA: And Lucas?
- MÉLIE: He's waiting at your château.
All in good time.
- HUGO: We're going to see Lucas again?
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES)
I hope so.
- HUGO: I like Lucas. He's nice.
- AMICIA: Save your breath, Hugo.
- MÉLIE: We're on the right track.
Let's keep moving. We're not safe yet.
Would you mind moving on?
Tell me...
What the hell are you doing
with The Inquisition after you?
What's so special about the little guy?
- AMICIA: It's... complicated.
And what about your brother?
Will he be alright?
- MÉLIE: He'll catch up with us.
- AMICIA: He really saved our lives.
It was incredible.
- MÉLIE: Hey...
Don't get all lovey dovey.
He'll break your poor little heart.
- AMICIA: I... I-I... No.
- HUGO: Hey, a mill!
- MÉLIE: Yeah, we're going to use it to cross.
- HUGO: Wow...
Oh, what are those birds?
- AMICIA: Ducks.
- HUGO: Oh...
Like... the ones we eat?
- AMICIA: Yes...
And they eat frogs. That's live.
- MÉLIE: I'm not interrupting anything, am I?
- AMICIA: Come on. It's not a good idea to stay here.
- MÉLIE: Is he always...
...like that?
- AMICIA: He hasn't seen much of the world.
- MÉLIE: This isn't the best moment to start.
- HUGO: First one to mill wins.
- AMICIA: Hey, slow down!
- HUGO: It's closed.
- MÉLIE: I'll do it.
It's opened.
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
- HUGO: Oh, a big wheel!
- AMICIA: It's for crushing the wheat.
- MÉLIE: (SIGHS) The current is too strong.
- HUGO: How are we going to get across?
- MÉLIE: By stopping it.
- HUGO: And how are we going to stop it?
- MÉLIE: Amicia...
- AMICIA: We'll find a way.
Mélie, can you look after it?
- MÉLIE: Alright.
(CRANKING)
- AMICIA: Go on, Hugo.
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: It's working!
- HUGO: Yay!
- MÉLIE: All we have to do now is cross over.
- HUGO: Amicia, you're not leaving without me, are you?
- AMICIA: I'm coming, Hugo.
I'm just trying to find a way to get you across.
- MÉLIE: (CHUCKLES) You sound like Arthur.
- AMICIA: Stop!
- HUGO: Alright.
- AMICIA: I'll let you do it, Hugo.
- HUGO: Down there.
- AMICIA: No, stop.
- MÉLIE: Yes.
- AMICIA: And there you go! See! Simple.
- MÉLIE: If The Inquisition make it this far,
that'll hold them up for a while.
- AMICIA: (EFFORT GRUNT)
Go...
...through here.
Come on.
- MÉLIE: Are you trying to impress me or what?
- AMICIA: No.
- MÉLIE: Alright, come on.
- HUGO: It's pretty here.
And it smells like earth.
The ah-kee-duct, is that where Lucas is?
- AMICIA: I hope so.
- MÉLIE: I doubt this castle is going to look like much.
- AMICIA: Why?
- MÉLIE: This used to be a village.
But it was reduced to rubble
in just one night, years ago.
Some says that there's a curse around these parts.
- HUGO: Amicia.
- AMICIA: She's joking, Hugo.
- MÉLIE: Of course, I am.
Since when do I say anything true, eh?
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
- HUGO: Amicia...
(HIGH PITCH NOISE)
- AMICIA: Hugo... What're you doing? Come here.
- HUGO: Oh...
- AMICIA: Hugo?
Hugo, look at me.
Is it starting again, your head?
MÉLIE: Don't say he's been bitten.
- AMICIA: It's not The Bite.
It's something in his blood since he was little.
I'll have to carry him.
Climb on my back if you can.
Come on.
- HUGO: Sorry...
- AMICIA: Don't worry.
- MÉLIE: If it's in his blood...
What about you?
- AMICIA: I'm fine.
Lucas is trying to slow the effect down.
That's also why we go to the château.
- HUGO: Amicia...
I'm scared.
- AMICIA: Of what, Hugo?
- HUGO: What's in my head.
- MÉLIE: Don't worry.
We're all scared of what's in our heads.
Here we are.
You'll be able to rest.
- AMICIA: At last.
- MÉLIE: Help me lift this.
- AMICIA: I'm coming.
Hugo, can you climb down, please?
(TRAP DOOR SHUTS)
- HUGO: Oh...
Is this your house?
- MÉLIE: It's a hideout, lad.
It's meant for hiding out not banquets with Lords and Ladies.
Don't touch that!
It's my brother's
That's worth a lot, that is.
- AMICIA: How long have you been living like this?
- MÉLIE: Like ruffians and beggars, you mean?
Family tradition.
Our dad was a piece of rubbish.
Tried to beat us one time too many so we skidaddled.
But you... You're almost royalty.
- AMICIA: Royalty? Huh.
- HUGO: Amicia.
- MÉLIE: What does huh mean?
- HUGO: I'm cold.
- AMICIA: Can't you see? Look at us.
We've lost everything.
- MÉLIE: What'd you mean?
Who's going to pay us then?
- AMICIA: What're you talking about?
- MÉLIE: Your mate, Lucas, he said you're rich!
- AMICIA: I...
- MÉLIE: Just forget it, alright?
Take Arthur's straw mattress
and when he finally gets here
we'll have a proper dicussion.
(HEAVY FOOTSTEPS ON WOOD)
Shhh...
- SOLDIER 1: So... see anything?
- SOLDIER 2: No, nothing there.
- SOLDIER: Hey, men...
This way, I need some help.
- HUGO: Where does that go?
- MÉLIE: Outside.
- AMICIA: Yes, but where?
- MÉLIE: Just trust me.
- AMICIA: And your brother?
- MÉLIE: He should've been here by now.
- AMICIA: Sorry.
- MÉLIE: Don't give up on him just yet.
Shit! Stay down.
- AMICIA: He has a helmet.
- MÉLIE: Ah... Devorantis.
- AMICIA: What??
- MÉLIE: Devorantis. Saltpetre and alcohol.
It burns your face and melts steel.
No one can get their helmet on with that.
Get some ready.
- AMICIA: Alright.
- MÉLIE: Go on.
Aim for the helmet.
Hit him in the head with the rock. Go on!
- SOLDIER: Hey! You there! I'm gonna teach...
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES)
- MÉLIE: (CHUCKLES) Serves him right.
- HUGO: It's noisy.
- MÉLIE: Try to be a bit more enthusiastic, will you?
Shit, look!
There's one with the helmet.
You know what to do.
- AMICIA: Yes.
(DISTANT CHATTER)
- HUGO: We have to get back to the ah-kee-duct.
- MÉLIE: I know.
- AMICIA: Where's the Château d'Ombrage?
- MÉLIE: This way.
Follow me.
- AMICIA: Oh no! I knew it.
- MÉLIE: Keep calm.
- AMICIA: Understood.
- HUGO: They're still looking for me.
- SOLDIER: What was that noise?
- SOLDIER: Something's going on again.
Let's go have a look.
- MÉLIE: Nearly there.
- AMICIA: The portcullis is down.
- MÉLIE: There's always a side entrance.
- HUGO: There.
- MÉLIE: Let's get out of here.
- AMICIA: Come on.
Go ahead.
- MÉLIE: So kind of you, Your Highness.
(DOOR SHUTS)
- SOLDIER: Come on, get moving.
- LUCAS: What're you going to do to me?
- MÉLIE: Careful.
- HUGO: It's Lucas.
- SOLDIER: The cart should be arriving soon
with fresh supplies.
They'll take you to the Inquisition Bastion in town.
- MÉLIE: Amicia, do you have any Devorantis left?
- AMICIA: Yes.
- MÉLIE: Then go on!
- HUGO: Lucas!
- LUCAS: Hey, I'm so glad to see you again!
- MÉLIE: I heard that.
- AMICIA: And what about you, Lucas?
How are you?
- MÉLIE: Uhh... Can we talk while we run
or we can sit down with some wine and some roast chicken
and wait for them to come and kill us?
What'd you reckon?
- LUCAS: You're right. Let's just go.
Let's keep going.
The château shouldn't be far now.
- MÉLIE: Let's go. Come on.
It's not far to the aqueduct.
- LUCAS: Seems like you've been through
some tough times.
- MÉLIE: (SCOFFS) You don't say.
You forgot to tell  us about the Inquisition.
- LUCAS: You wouldn't have accepted the deal.
- MÉLIE: The one where your friends are rich?
- LUCAS: We'll sort it out.
- MÉLIE: Tell my brother that.
(RANING SOUND)
(CHILLING MUSIC PLAYING)
What's all this?
- LUCAS: An accident?
- AMICIA: An Inquisition cart.
- LUCAS: Rats...
- MÉLIE: There must be things
we can salvage from inside.
- AMICIA: I don't see how we can get past.
- LUCAS: Oh, Amicia!
I have something for you.
It's a by-product of Ignifer — Luminosa.
You throw it in a pile of rats and...
Anyway, you'll see it...
Here, take it.
Saltpatre, alcohol, and leather.
Mix them together.
- AMICIA: Alright.
- LUCAS: Throw it to the rats.
Boom!
Luminosa!
- HUGO: Ah... My eyes sting.
- MÉLIE: (CHUCKLES) It completely destroyed them.
- AMICIA: Lucas, the cart is packed
full of alchemical materials.
- LUCAS: Make sense.
The Inquisition...
They couldn't have got as far as the Macula
without reading the alchemical writings.
I don't know what they're up to.
But whatever it is, these carts will be useful.
- HUGO: The ah-kee-duct! We're nearly there!
- LUCAS: Finally...
We're going to find out at last.
- AMICIA: I'll help you up.
- HUGO: Alright.
Let's go up the ah-kee-duct!
- AMICIA: Hugo, it's a-kwuh-duct
- HUGO: Oh.
Ah-Kwuh-Duct
Aqueduct!
- LUCAS: Mélie, where're your brother?
- MÉLIE: I don't want to talk about it.
- LUCAS: Er...
Al-Alright.
- HUGO: Wow...
- MÉLIE: Well spotted.
- AMICIA: Come on. Get up there.
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: What?
Is that it?
There's nothing here. Lucas, I...
Don't tell me we've done all this for nothing.
- LUCAS: No! No, no.
Laurentius was smarter than that.
It was alchemist's trick.
"Gold is born from lead...
The door shall only reveal itself
to the one who has the key."
Something like that.
- MÉLIE: Hm... I prefer...
"Use your eyes, before using your mouth."
Who's going first?
- LUCAS: Nice one.
Uh... Amicia?
- AMICIA: Come on, then.
We've come this far.
- MÉLIE: That's my girl!
- HUGO: Oh, wow!
- AMICIA: Oh!
- MÉLIE: (WHISTLES)
Not bad.
- HUGO: Is that... the sea?
- LUCAS: No, it's water that's collected underground.
Hey, there's a pontoon.
- AMICIA: People used to use this place.
We're on the right track!
- MÉLIE: I've... never heard of it before.
- HUGO: And the château?
Where is it?
- LUCAS: Well, if you want to know,
we have to get across first.
Well done!
A reaction ferry.
- AMICIA: A what?
- LUCAS: A boat that's propelled
by a rope, you pull it by hand.
- MÉLIE: There's a hand crank.
- AMICIA: Can you do it, Mélie?
- MÉLIE: Lucas! Come and help instead of sleeping.
- LUCAS: Er... Yes, yes.
- HUGO: The water is green.
- LUCAS: That's because there're lots of things living in it.
- HUGO: They must be very cold.
- AMICIA: Once, Father took us to the lake at Tourves.
And I slipped, and fell in the water.
It was so cold that made me cry.
- HUGO: (LAUGHS) I would've cried too.
- MÉLIE: Your boat awaits.
- HUGO: Shall I get in?
- AMICIA: Yes, Hugo, get in.
- MÉLIE: I hope they can swim.
Hold on tight.
There you go!
- HUGO: Wow!
I can't see any fish.
- AMICIA: Oh... that's because of the monster.
- HUGO: What? A monster?
- AMICIA: Of course!
The underground lakes are magical.
Huge, ancient monsters hide in their depth.
And watch out, they're very hungry.
- HUGO: No, they're not.
And if there were monsters,
we'd see some big bubbles.
- AMICIA: (LAUGHS) You got me!
- HUGO: Mummy used to say that:
"Monsters are just those things...
"...those things to...
- AMICIA: ...just those things to which
we have never given a name."
She told me that too.
- HUGO: I would quite like to see a monster, actually.
- AMICIA: Right, this is where we get off.
- HUGO: Aw... It was too quick.
- AMICIA: I know.
But it's someone else's turn now.